Cookbook : encoding (#2097)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/cookbook/encoding/encoding/00-camomile.md

---
packages:
- name: "camomile"
  version: "1.0.2"
sections:
- filename: main.ml
  language: ocaml
  code_blocks:
  - explanation: |

>       Initialize the `camomile` library, which offer a large set of functions to deal with strings presented in various encoding. We will need to instanciate a module that deals with UTF8 strings. (In most cases, the source code is in UTF8 and when OCaml see a constant string, it just copy the byte sequence whatever its encoding.). The `Camomile` module declaration is required with the version 1 of `camomile` and mustn't be declared with the version 2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Initialise the `camomile` library, which offers a large set of functions to deal with strings presented in various encodings. We will need to instanciate a module that deals with UTF8 strings. (In most cases, the source code is in UTF8, and when OCaml sees a constant string, it just copies the byte sequence for whatever its encoding.). The `Camomile` module declaration is required with the version 1 of `camomile` and mustn't be declared with the version 2:
```

      module UTF8 = Camomile.CharEncoding.Make(Camomile.UTF8)
  - explanation: Let's convert a UTF8 string into a Latin1 encoding. (Note, most terminals deal equaly with UTF8 and Latin1 characters, then both strings look equal on the screen).
    code: |
      let utf8 = "déjà"
      let () = assert (String.length utf8 = 6)
      let latin1 = UTF8.encode Camomile.CharEncoding.latin1 utf8
      let () = assert (String.length latin1 = 4)
  - explanation: Let's convert the Latin1 character back to UTF8.
    code: |
      let utf8' = UTF8.decode Camomile.CharEncoding.latin1 latin1
      let () = assert (utf8 = utf8')
  - explanation: |
      Some other encoding are not directly available in the `Camomile.CharEncoding` module, but the `of_name` function can get them. (Note: The Euro glyph (€) is not supported by Latin1. Note, "ISO_8859-16" can also be named "LATIN10")
    code: |
      let latin10 = UTF8.encode (Camomile.CharEncoding.of_name "ISO_8859-16") "100 €";;
- filename: dune
  language: dune
  code_blocks:
  - explanation: |
      The `camomile` library must be linked.
    code: |
      (executable
        (name main)
        (libraries camomile))
---

> - **Understanding `camomile`:** The `camomile` package provides many operations which deal with string encodings. More than 500 encodings are supported. It provides different modules which deal with string encoding/decoding. Some other functions are provided to extract single characters from an encoded string (UTF8 chars can use a variable numbers of bytes which is not well supported by the `StdLib`), to identify characters classes or perform some uppercase/lowercase transformation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Understanding `camomile`:** The `camomile` package provides many operations which deal with string encodings. More than 500 encodings are supported. It provides different modules that deal with string encoding/decoding. Some other functions are provided to extract single characters from an encoded string (UTF8 chars can use a variable number of bytes, which is not well supported by the `StdLib`), to identify characters classes, or to perform some uppercase/lowercase transformation)
```

> - **Alternatives:** `coin` is an alternative which support Unicode to/from KOI8-U/R (Ukranian/Russian encoding). `rosetta`, `text`, `ucorelib`, `uutf` are also Unicode converters. `uuuu`is limited to Unicode from/to ISO-8859-* charsets. `unidecode` converts unicode to plain ASCII. `yuscii` is dedicated to UTF-7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Alternatives:** `coin` is an alternative that supports Unicode to/from KOI8-U/R (Ukranian/Russian encoding). `rosetta`, `text`, `ucorelib`, ` and `uutf` are also Unicode converters. `uuuu` is limited to Unicode from/to ISO-8859-* charsets. `unidecode` converts unicode to plain ASCII. `yuscii` is dedicated to UTF-7.
```
